	When Jamie announced the release of Constant Companions (Deluxe Edition), she revealed that the album was “missing a song,” dropped at the last minute “for reasons I’d rather not get into.” She described it as “one of the most ambitious things I’ve ever recorded, and my favorite song I’ve ever written.” As detailed in the June 2024 edition of the Bandcamp subscriber-exclusive Jamie P Jam Pack series of compilations, this song originally took the name “Magnasanti”, a nod to a viral Sim City experiment in which an attempt at creating a city with the highest-possible population careened into a totalitarian urban prison. The idea was kicked around in many different permutations, one of which became another deluxe edition-exclusive song, “Manifesto”. Eventually, “Magnasanti” was finished for the deluxe edition. As opposed to the other additions in the deluxe edition, which were placed after “Machine Love” in the track order, this particular song was retroactively slotted into its originally intended spot on the tracklist, rechristened “Clouddrop”.
	Clocking in at just under seven minutes, “Clouddrop” is Jamie’s first dip into progressive rock, spanning three distinct movements and being replete with call-backs to preceding songs on the album. It is the point at which all the album’s threads converge, and it’s on here that it all comes together at an explosively emotional climax.
	“Clouddrop” is the darkest entry on the album, and indeed one of the darkest in Jamie’s catalog as a whole. Both musically and lyrically heavy, the song candidly portrays Teto in the midst of a suicide attempt, careening down a road as the other parts of herself (represented by GUMI and ANRI) desperately try to talk her out of it; it’s left ambiguous whether the road imagery is literal or metaphorical. Starting off in a frantic rush of mania and despair, Teto indicates that she’s fallen to the lowest possible point in her life: former joys only bring shame, self-help has failed, and her overall perception of herself and her circumstances has made her conclude that there’s no longer any point to staying alive. Eventually, she starts to realize just what she’ll give up on, at which point things slow to an elegiac crawl. Teto imagines the person she loves the most contemplating suicide herself out of grief. It drags her deeper into her despair and self-loathing – at which point the voices of ANRI and GUMI almost scream into Teto’s head, bringing her back from the brink. Her pace picks up again as she proclaims with overflowing energy that she wants to fly. Following this, the song slowly winds down as GUMI gives a final verse that echoes the ending of “Cadmium Colors”, though painting it in a new hopeful light. Finally, Jamie steps up to the microphone and sings the song’s closing lines, building off of her description of Teto as “the vocal synth that feels the most like a stand-in for my own voice [and that] almost seems to bring out parts of myself that are a bit too honest.” Accordingly, Jamie’s contribution to the vocals emphasize thoughts and experiences alluded to in the final segment of the song’s Bandcamp description:

“and the warmest, most grateful and loving thanks
to the other me

for facing down that cliffside
that jagged, twisted cliffside
on the darkest day of our entire life

and having the strength
to turn around, heart in hand
and drive the fuck home”
