Conceived as a tribute to “Song of the Eared Robot” by Nwp8861, the earliest surviving Kasane Teto song in existence, “Machine Love” is a piece of many layers. On the surface, it is an ode to a computer program falling in love with its human user, taking a common trope in popular media and spinning it in its own, euphoric direction. On a deeper level, it’s a tribute to Kasane Teto herself, extolling her communal origins as a 2chan-created parody of Hatsune Miku that rapidly took on a life of her own. On even deeper levels, it’s a song about Jamie’s view of art and about trans joy, two especially favored subjects in Jamie’s work. All the while, this myriad of meanings is connected by the same guiding thread: the desire to discover the truths that lay hiding within artifice (as Jamie so often phrases it) and the fundamental need to bridge gaps in order to achieve fulfillment.
        According to Jamie, “Machine Love” was written in its entirety shortly after the release of Kasane Teto’s first Synthesizer V release, which had generated widespread attention online for how lifelike her vocals sounded, with many longtime fans (and others knowledgeable about her history) considering it a fulfilment of the lifelong headcanon that Teto strived to be seen as a “real Vocaloid.” Describing it as “my love letter to the entire world of unbridled creativity and artistry surrounding vocal synths filtered through one sentimental little song,” the track was specifically inspired by a SynthV cover of “Song of the Eared Robot” – as Jamie considered the original a personal favorite for years, the decision to homage it became inevitable. The piece was then recorded for the 2024 compilation album DAEMON/DOLL (released to commemorate the SynthV version of Teto’s first anniversary) before being remixed for inclusion on Constant Companions. The decision to put it on the latter was explained as follows:
        “There isn’t really a definitive answer to the specific question ‘Baby, do you know what you wanna hear?’, but [“Machine Love] evokes a theme running through the entire album - wanting something, knowing that you want something, and simply needing to find the courage to do it or say it or be it. ‘My Darling, My Companion’ is in many ways a declaration of intent, an acceptance of what needs to happen, but ‘Machine Love’, to me, is that action being done. The words being said!”
        Musically, “Machine Love” is a soaring rush of elation that both blazes like an inferno and quenches like an overflowing font. Prominently quoting “Song of the Eared Robot”, its anthemic approach fully conveys the multifaceted joy that inspired its creation. This approach and its connection to the lyrical themes are complimented by its elaborate music video, the first in Jamie’s career, which acts as a further love letter to Teto’s history and role in internet culture, referencing past songs and fan content (including the entire rest of the tracklist on DAEMON/DOLL) while emphasizing Teto’s desire to bridge the gap between the real and virtual worlds. Self-shot and supported by her friends and Twitter mutuals, Jamie affectionately described the final product as “scrappy, DIY bullshit,” being as sleek as it is palpably autodidactic. In that regard, both the song and video act as a firm embodiment of Teto’s past, present, and possible future.